I think it's time to talk about the board
and all of the components on the board.
Kinda getting you familiarized
like we promised earlier.
With everything on there.
>> We want to get chance you just kinda
point out where everything is on the board
so you can see where it's at and
get a kind of feel for it.
>> Alright.
>> First off, we have
the Qualcomm Snapdragon 410 processor.
This is the shining star of the Dragon
board because it's the brain of the board.
>> I like what you did there.
>> I got really excited because I've used
other boards in the past and there's so
many problems with having lots of lag and
glitching and
trying to move around and
it kind of jumps around awkwardly.
But we don't have any kinds of
those problems using this board so
it's been really exciting.
>> Oh, so you have to see it for yourself.
>> [LAUGH]
>> But there is one gigabyte of RAM
on board, and there's also
a little slot to be able to put in
a micro SD card and so
there's a lot of options with that.
>> I'd actually like to
talk about that real quick.
We have experience with other boards,
like the SD card slot can't be used for
anything.
You're either running your operating
system off it, you're running boot disks
off of it, you're running a boot
file off of it or an image.
With this board, you can not only boot
an operating system or flash an operating
system onto the board, you can also use
the micro SD card as extra storage space.
At least a few of the boards that I've
had experience with you can't do that.
So that's a really cool feature
about the micro SD card slot.
>> Yeah, and
also one of the most exciting things for
me was that if you look you
can see that there is wireless
internet, GPS and
Bluetooth all built into the board, and
I have never seen another one that had all
three of them already pre-installed and
that comes with it so
it's been really exciting.
Again the Micro SD slot and
there's different dip switches so
you control how to boot from the card or
not, and
so you can use that to be able to install
different operating systems on the board.
There are two USB ports.
We haven't found a much need to
have more than that because again,
no extra dongles to plug in WiFi,
no extra dongles to plug in Bluetooth,
don't have to deal with that,
just got a mouse and a keyboard and
also keyboards available that have
a little touch pad included so
it hasn't been a problem at all.
Now, there is a micro USB port.
This is to connect to a computer.
It does not work at the same time as
the mouse and the keyboard, but then,
you don't need the mouse and the keyboard
if you're connected to a computer.
So, again, no problem there.
Yeah.
>> Another cool thing about that is
you have basically a PC host to
manipulate aspects of the board.
So-
>> Connect through a terminal.
Do all sorts of cool things through there.
In fact that's how you're gonna be
importing your applications from Android
studio onto the board.
Yeah.
>> Yeah I guess that's important to note
that if you're more Android you'll
probably use the micro USB and
if you're more Ubuntu
you'd use the USB slots.
>> Yeah, so
as you can see up there, number 7,
also the 40 pin expansion header which
is the low speed expansion header.
That's where you're gonna find
all of the GPIO interfaces,
especially the ones that we're
gonna be using for this course, and
we're gonna talk to you way more
in detail about all that later on.
>> Yeah, I take it back.
This is one of the most
exciting things in the course.
[LAUGH]
>> Yeah.
>> There's so many things.
>> For this course, this is gonna be
one of the things we're gonna be using
the most, at least for course three.
But, yeah, definitely.
We have a 16 pin analog expansion header,
which is located right next to
the 40 pin expansion header.
On this header you have access to audio,
you have access to
microphone jacks, so essentially
you're able to solder in a 3.5,
for example, 3.5 millimeter audio jack and
plug in some speakers or
solder on a jack for a microphone.
There's lots of other
interesting things on there.
We won't go too much into detail
in this course but just so
you know it is there and there's plenty
of documentation on this header.
We have a 60-pin, high speed
header which is gonna be used for
a lot of other things that we
won't be covering in this course.
Possibly in later courses, but
just so you know it's there and
there again is a lot of
documentation on this header.
You have the power button right there,
you can see the power symbol there.
Pretty straightforward, but you're
gonna be using that mostly for Android,
powering off your board on Android.
You most likely won't be touching
it when you're running the Ubuntu.
>> Yeah there's shut down menus on Ubuntu.
>> When you picture your cell phone, you
picture, you have your sleep/power button,
you have your volume buttons, which are
located right next to the power button and
that's mainly what that's gonna be for
on Android.
The minus button is used later on for
booting into fast boot, but
you'll be taught how to do that later.
The DC barrel jack,
basically how you power your board.
Pretty self explanatory.
You're gonna need to stick
between a 6.5 volt and
a 18 volt DC power supply, or
power adapter and two amps.
So you can find all that information
in the spec sheets for the board.
But you definitely want to
make sure you look at that so
that you don't burn out your board by
plugging in too high of a voltage.
>> Yeah.
>> So stick between 6.5 and 18.
>> The nice thing here, though,
is it has a lot higher voltage than most
boards customly have,
cuz if I took an 18 volt adapter and
plugged it into something else,
it would probably burn it out.
>> Oh yeah, no, we've actually done that.
So, yeah [LAUGH].
Yeah.
>> [LAUGH] Well,
this one's a bit safer so [LAUGH].
>> Yeah, and definitely being able
to put higher voltages in there.
>> Plus it's nice cuz then
you get a high voltage
power rail out of the 40 pin expansion
header which can be very useful if you're
running certain things like-
>> Oh yeah,
we're gonna actually talk about that.
So sometimes you might need to run
a really high voltage to power
a certain device.
This board's already got that, so
no need for batteries or extra adapters.
>> Yeah.
For example, powering a motor.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, and then last but
not least, the HDMI port.
It's how you're gonna
see everything right?
So, a full sized HDMI,
two HDMI, really cool.
So, yeah, there's your board,
at least, some of the main components.
I'd recommend looking at it and
kind of getting familiar with it.